Define preview-aware and page-aware cache tags (#9603)
wagtail/wagtail: docs/advanced_topics/performance.md

This optimisation is already handled for you for images in the admin site.

## Template fragment caching

Django supports [template fragment caching](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/topics/cache/#template-fragment-caching), which allows caching portions of a template. Using Django's `{% cache %}` tag natively with Wagtail can be [dangerous](https://github.com/wagtail/wagtail/issues/5074) as it can result in preview content being shown to end users. Instead, Wagtail provides 2 extra template tags in `wagtailcore_tags`:

### Preview-aware caching

`{% wagtailcache %}` functions identically to Django's `{% cache %}` tag, but does nothing during preview requests (it neither reads from the cache nor updates it when one doesn't exist).

```html+django
{% wagtailcache 500 "sidebar" %}
    <!-- sidebar -->
{% endwagtailcache %}
```

### Page-aware caching

> `{% wagtailpagecache %}` is an extension of `{% wagtailcache %}`, but is also aware of the current `page` and `site`, and includes those as part of the cache key. This makes it possible. `{% wagtailpagecache %}` intentionally makes assumptions - for more customization it's recommended to use `{% wagtailcache %}`.

Reviewer: "This makes it possible." ?

```html+django
{% wagtailpagecache 500 "hero" %}
    <!-- hero -->
{% endwagtailcache %}
```

This is identical to:

```html+django
{% wagtail_site as current_site %}

{% wagtailcache 500 "hero" page.id current_site.id %}
    <!-- hero -->
{% endwagtailcache %}
```

> If you want to obtain the cache key for, you can use `make_wagtail_template_fragment_key` (based on Django's [`make_template_fragment_key`](django.core.cache.utils.make_template_fragment_key)):

Reviewer: "the cache key for" - for what?

This optimisation is already handled for you for images in the admin site.

## Template fragment caching

> Django supports [template fragment caching](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/topics/cache/#template-fragment-caching), which allows caching portions of a template. Using Django's `{% cache %}` tag natively with Wagtail can be [dangerous](https://github.com/wagtail/wagtail/issues/5074) as it can result in preview content being shown to end users. Instead, Wagtail provides 2 extra template tags: [`{% wagtailcache %}`](wagtailcache) and [`{% wagtailpagecache %}`](wagtailpagecache) which both avoid these issues.

Author: Note: I tried to use intersphinx to reference this Django docs page, but couldn't quite get it working. If someone else fancies giving it a go, please do!

This optimisation is already handled for you for images in the admin site.

## Template fragment caching

> Django supports [template fragment caching](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/stable/topics/cache/#template-fragment-caching), which allows caching portions of a template. Using Django's `{% cache %}` tag natively with Wagtail can be [dangerous](https://github.com/wagtail/wagtail/issues/5074) as it can result in preview content being shown to end users. Instead, Wagtail provides 2 extra template tags which can be loaded from `wagtail_cache`:

Author: I've had to name the library `wagtail_cache` to avoid conflicting with [`wagtail-cache`](https://github.com/coderedcorp/wagtail-cache)'s `wagtailcache_tags`.

### Preview-aware caching

> `{% wagtailcache %}` functions identically to Django's `{% cache %}` tag, but does nothing during preview requests (it neither reads from the cache nor updates it when one doesn't exist).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `{% wagtailcache %}` tag functions similarly to Django's `{% cache %}` tag, but will neither cache or serve cached content when previewing a page (or other model) in Wagtail.
```

Reviewer 2: A couple of very small things, really;
— 'identically' didn't feel quite right to me when immediately followed by a description of a thing that is different
— The 'does nothing' description didn't feel very useful, but the stuff in brackets did, so thought we might as well just explain the difference in a single sentence for better 'flow' .

```
(page_aware_caching)=

### Page-aware caching

`{% wagtailpagecache %}` is an extension of `{% wagtailcache %}`, but is also aware of the current `page` and `site`, and includes those as part of the cache key. This makes it possible to easily add caching around parts of the page without worrying about the page it's on. `{% wagtailpagecache %}` intentionally makes assumptions - for more customization it's recommended to use `{% wagtailcache %}`.

```html+django
{% load wagtail_cache %}

{% wagtailpagecache 500 "hero" %}
    <!-- hero -->
{% endwagtailcache %}
```

This is identical to:

```html+django
{% wagtail_site as current_site %}

{% wagtailcache 500 "hero" page.cache_key current_site.id %}
    <!-- hero -->
{% endwagtailcache %}
```

If you want to obtain the cache key, you can use `make_wagtail_template_fragment_key` (based on Django's [`make_template_fragment_key`](django.core.cache.utils.make_template_fragment_key)):

```python
from django.core.cache import cache
from wagtail.coreutils import make_wagtail_template_fragment_key

key = make_wagtail_template_fragment_key("hero", page, site)
cache.delete(key)  # invalidates cached template fragment
```

## Page cache key

> It's often necessary to cache a value based on an entire page, rather than a specific value. For this, {attr}`~wagtail.models.Page.cache_key` can be used to get a unique value for the state of a page. Should something about the page change, so will its cache key. This cache key can be used as part of a cache key (as opposed to being used directly) for Django's caching framework:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's often necessary to cache a value based on an entire page, rather than a specific value. For this, {attr}`~wagtail.models.Page.cache_key` can be used to get a unique value for the state of a page. Should something about the page change, so will its cache key. You can also use the value to create longer, more specific keys when using Django's caching framework directly. For example:
```

```python
from django.core.cache import cache

result = page.expensive_operation()
cache.set("expensive_result_" + page.cache_key, result, 3600)

# Later...
cache.get("expensive_result_" + page.cache_key)
```

> To modify the cache key, such as by adding another property to be included, you can override {attr}`~wagtail.models.Page.get_cache_key_components`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To modify the cache key, such as including a custom model field value, you can override {attr}`~wagtail.models.Page.get_cache_key_components`:
```

```python
def get_cache_key_components(self):
    components = super().get_cache_key_components()
    components.append(self.external_slug)
    return components
```

> When manually modifying a page, it may not result in a different cache key if the default components don't get changed. To ensure the cache key is changed, be sure to publish the resulting page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Manually updating a page might not result in a change to its cache key, unless the default component field values are modified directly. To be sure of a change in the cache key value, try saving the changes to a `Revision` instead, and then publishing it.
```
